# Preface

In 1993, a scientific journal proposed the theory that it takes roughly 10,000 hours of work on a subject to master it and become an expert. Whether I fully agree with this or not, the takeaway is that, in my opinion, consistency and regularity are key to mastering any field. I will never beat Magnus Carlsen at chess by playing only two or three games a month (and yet, I’m trying to improve!), just as I will never reach the level of *Matz* (Yukihiro Matsumoto – creator of the **Ruby programming language**), *Sandi Metz*, *Dave Thomas*, and many other talented developers if I don’t practice regularly.

Thus, I decided to dedicate a full year to learning, deepening, and practicing the **Ruby programming language**. Of course, I will still be far from the 10,000 hours after 365 days (it would require working 27 hours a day for a year to reach that…), but it will already be a significant step in my journey with this language. Documenting my journey, day by day, by writing this book is not only a way for me to internalize each concept more effectively, but also an opportunity for any curious reader to walk the same path, accompany me throughout this adventure, and even correct me or connect with **Ruby** enthusiasts far more skilled than I am at the moment I write each chapter of this story.

I first encountered **Ruby** during a career change in 2025, and I immediately appreciated its simple, intuitive syntax that reads like a natural language. More than just a programming language, **Ruby** is now a full ecosystem maintained by an active community.

This book is by no means intended to be a **Ruby** language bible. Other books, such as *Programming Ruby 3.3* [^1] by *Noel Rappin* or *The Ruby Programming Language* [^2] by *David Flanagan*, do that very well. ***One Year With Ruby*** is for anyone who wants to start learning this wonderful language calmly and steadily. Day by day, or at your own pace, you will explore one or more concepts, starting with the basics and gradually progressing to slightly more advanced topics as the chapters unfold.

I hope my journey inspires other developers to dive into **Ruby programming** and join this amazing community. And, just like me, by the end of this book, you will no longer be the same developer you were a year ago.

[^1]: https://pragprog.com/titles/ruby5/programming-ruby-3-3-5th-edition/
[^2]: https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-ruby-programming/9780596516178/
